Do you want to be loved by others?
Naturally, we all want to be loved.
Love is a basic human need.
Babies thrive on it.
Teenagers thrive on it.
Marriage mates thrive on it.
Bethelites and Gilead students thrive on it.
It makes us happy to be loved.
What about loving others?
Love is unselfish.
Loving others makes the receivers happy,
but it also makes us as givers happy.
Love is the reason why we exist.
Jehovah created us out of unselfish love
to let us share not only life
but also the privilege to love him.
Jehovah does not need our love
since he does not depend on anybody else,
but he appreciates our love.
He loves to be loved by us.
He created us also with the ability
to love others besides him.
We love to do good to others.
We love to love them.
Since when does love exist?
It always existed.
It had no beginning.
Why?
Because “God is love.”
And we know God had no beginning,
so God’s love had no beginning.
There was no time in the past
when God existed but love did not.
Jehovah not only has love,
but he is love personified.
Jehovah created us in his image.
This is why we have this superb privilege
to reflect his love.
In the world, books, movies, and songs
often deal with love.
But what kind of love?
Usually romantic love—love that often fails.
Genuine love of God and of neighbor
is widely lacking today.
When describing “the last days,”
the prophecy at 2 Timothy 3:2 has come true
that people are often “lovers of themselves.”
Me-ism and egotism is widespread.
One journal carries the title Self.
People think, ‘First me, then nothing,
and then me again,
and then perhaps somebody else.’
At 2 Timothy 3:2, Paul also wrote
that people would be “lovers of money.”
In the same prophecy,
it says that the majority
would be “lovers of pleasures
rather than lovers of God.”
For many, entertainment and sports
have become the dominant aspect
of their lives.
Furthermore, 1 John 2:15 indicates
that there is a battle between two loves
—love of Jehovah and love of the world.
The stronger our love for Jehovah is,
the better we will be able to resist
the love of the world.
At Matthew 22:37,
Jesus encouraged cultivating love for God
to the fullest extent possible.
“You must love Jehovah your God
“with your whole heart
and with your whole soul
and with your whole mind.”
How does love for Jehovah grow?
We must tend to the good soil of our heart
where the seed of Kingdom truth was sown.
How does love between two persons grow?
One way is by communication.
We communicate with Jehovah through prayer.
Jehovah communicates with us
through the Bible and his organization.
If we study the Bible and read it daily
as well as attend the congregation meetings,
our love for him will continue to grow.
Love needs to grow.
It is not a matter of how much we know
but how much we love what we know.
Head knowledge is not enough.
There needs to be heart knowledge.
Growing in love is a process.
A plant grows when it is watered;
love grows if it is watered
with the water of truth.
At Philippians 1:9, Paul says:
“And this is what I continue praying,
that your love may abound yet more and more.”
Love grows gradually.
It is not enough to have a little love;
we should abound in love.
Jehovah sets the example.
He expressed his love
by providing the ransom.
In Matthew chapter 18,
Jesus compares Jehovah with a king
who was willing to forgive a debt
of 60 million denarii,
or 10,000 silver talents.
This certainly impresses his love for us.
Jesus expressed his love by being willing
to die for our sins.
This stirs our love in return.
The more one has been forgiven,
the more one will love.
But love is not dependent
on having one’s sins forgiven.
Jesus loved Jehovah so much
but had not a single sin
that needed to be forgiven.
But he loved Jehovah, and he loved us.
The night before he died,
he said at John 14:31:
“I love the Father.”
Do we not (all of us) feel the same?
How can we demonstrate
our love of God in return?
We can do so by serving Jehovah
with all our heart.
This includes preaching and teaching.
True or false?
The most important reason
for preaching and teaching is
love of neighbor.
It sounds good, but it is wrong.
The most important motive for preaching
is, first of all, love for Jehovah.
And the most important objective
is to praise Jehovah.
We want to glorify him and to support
the vindication of his sovereignty.
Love of neighbor comes second.
But we also need to show love
to our brothers.
In one congregation, several sisters
took daily turns to prepare a hot meal
for a quadriplegic brother.
This shows that our love
extends beyond preaching.
It is like with the parable of the Samaritan
who cared for the man
who was assaulted and hurt by robbers.
The Samaritan did not preach to the man
who fell among the robbers.
He just showed unselfish love to him.
Jesus emphasized that our neighborly love
should include even enemies.
At Matthew 5:44, he said:
“I say to you: Continue to love your enemies
and to pray for those persecuting you.”
Our love will be perfect
if we love even our enemies.
Jehovah gives sunshine and rain
even to wicked opposers.
One publisher went to a hospital
to visit an opposing husband.
The man appreciated this kind gesture
very much.
Think of what Jesus has endured.
He was hated without cause,
persecuted, reviled, and murdered.
Help people to develop their appreciation
for what Jesus did for us.
Show interested ones
that because of the ransom,
Jehovah forgives us our sins
and opens the way to everlasting life.
When you talk about the ransom,
don’t do it just in a legalistic way
by saying: “See, like on scales,
“on one side was Adam
and on the other side was Jesus.
“God’s justice required
that by giving his life,
Jesus restored what Adam had lost.”
Rather, make the student meditate
and develop heart appreciation and love
for what Jesus did.
Review with a student what Jesus
went through prior to his execution.
Help him picture in his mind
how Jesus was flogged,
producing quivering ribbons
of bleeding flesh.
Help the student sense how Jesus was mocked.
After his tortured beating,
soldiers said to him mockingly:
“Good day, you King of the Jews!”
Also, they spit on him
and slapped him in the face.
Remind the student
how the soldiers later pounded large nails
into his hands and into his feet.
With the stake swung upright,
the pain was excruciating,
for the weight of the body
tore all the nail wounds.
Yet, rather than threaten,
Jesus prayed for the Roman soldiers:
“Father, forgive them,
for they do not know what they are doing.”
Meditating on what Jesus did for us,
does this not greatly deepen
our love for him?
At Ephesians 3:19, Paul wrote:
“The love of the Christ
. . . surpasses knowledge.”
It is not the love for the Christ
but the love that Jesus displayed
that surpasses head knowledge
and strikes a wonderful chord
in our figurative heart.
Jesus’ course stimulates a response in us.
As we think about what Christ
has done for us,
our love for him deepens.
In fact, 2 Corinthians 5:14 says:
“For the love the Christ has compels us.”
After mentioning gifts of the spirit,
such as healing and speaking in tongues,
Paul explained at 1 Corinthians 12:31:
“Yet I will show you a surpassing way.”
What is this “way”?
The way of love.
In what way is it surpassing?
In the sense that the gifts of the spirit,
including prophesying,
would be “done away with.”
But love would always be there.
Jehovah is eternal.
His love will never fail, never end,
but will continue forever and ever and ever.
Therefore, Paul wrote: “There remain
“faith, hope, love, these three;
but the greatest of these is love.”
He also wrote: “Love never fails.”
Love “endures all things.”
Many brothers suffered a lot
during World War II
and also today in Russia and other countries.
Today, there are a number of governments
in the world that suppress the truth.
As we live in the time of the end,
this is not surprising to us.
It will get worse as the great tribulation
comes closer.
World conditions are also getting worse
in many parts of the world,
and COVID has claimed many human victims.
But we Witnesses keep enduring
by pursuing the surpassing way of love
that never fails.
We shall not only live forever
but also love forever and be loved forever.